how does this activity that
we're now seeing from your
Cara, not far from gaza, how
does this activity for us --
compared to what we have seen
over the past few nights.
>> Wolf, the past few nights
it's not been as intense as
this, we have not seen this
level of illumination, we've
occasionally seen flares with
--
heavy debt to nations but as I
look, there another missile,
not sure what kind of missile
it, was literally right from
the start --
these --
seem to be slightly smaller
missiles, but the area here
that's being illuminated by the
flares is much bigger than
we've seen recently.
You just saw a flash come out
there, I just saw on other
missile come down and impact on
the ground.
Possibly the way that the
trajectory of that missile is
possibly, coming from a
helicopter, it's just not
possible for us to say
precisely at the moment.
There is a clear focus of fire,
here this firepower and the
illumination being fought on
the edge of what we estimate to
be gaza city, I just saw a
rocket fly to the right out of
gaza, we watched the right
towards --
to see if there's any
interceptions from I am bone,
but there's a red tracer
fearless really flying from
gaza to the right.
This is normally from our
experience here been Iraq it's
coming out of gaza.
I don't see any interceptions,
I'm hearing interceptions, I'm
seeing the flashes from
interception to missiles being
fired out.
While this is going on, here it
is clear to me from where I
stand right now that hamas, or
one of the other groups is
firing rockets out of gaza even
while they run this heavy fire
right now, I heard at least two
detonations from the iron dome
interceptor missile shield from
systems that are slightly to
the north of us here,
intercepting those rockets
flying out of the city.
What this tells us right now is
the battle is having an intense
moment, the troops are trying
to engage with hamas, as they
try to have illumination,, they
try to use this light to get
their way more safely into
combat with hamas.
Hamas of course, hamas is
fighting on its own territory,
it has set, trumps it knows
words tunnels are, it knows how
it can try to leak idf troops
entice them into a certain
neighborhood so that they can
bring fire to bear on them.
All of this illumination here
will give the idf troops on the
ground, better visibility of
the threats that are white.
Them it won't mitigate against
him, Taliban it is an attempt
for them it appears to be able
to at this moment penetrate
some neighborhoods that until
15 minutes ago were in complete
darkness.
You're just seeing another
flash of light on the ground
there as something has
detonated.
I'm watching another rocket
system in multiple parts of
second one coming down there
into the city.
It is this fire that is very
concentrated, another rocket
just came down, I'm seeing the
arc of the tracers after it.
This is a very intense amount
of firepower that's going down
on this confined location here
wolf.
Surprising, almost surprising
that hamas was able to fire out
Iraq at there.
I'm seeing flashes off to the
north which is a hit to me,
interceptors have been fired
from iron don't up there again,
possibly another intercepting
anr rocket.
You're seeing the flares --
were watching flares that are
dropped over gaza, you will see
one flare drop to flares, maybe
create --
and it will go to darkness.
This is different.
This is flare after flare after
flare, illuminating this area
now for, we're looking at
perhaps 15 minutes now wolf.
>>
Just to remind our viewers of
what we're seeing, this is our
camera instead wrote, just
outside of gaza.
We're seeing these live cameras,
a massive Israeli airstrike
campaign underway right now
towards various targets in
northern gaza, as we can see
right there.
You see all the smoke, you see
the rockets coming down.
This is a major new development.
We also saw some rockets coming
in from gaza towards Israel
that appear to have been
intercepted by Israel's iron
dome.
System.
But, we are seeing this very
intense system, Nick, standby
for a minute.
You are not too far away from
all this drama that is
unfolding, it seems like a
major new chapter in Israel's
air campaign against hamas
targets in gaza.
Ben wedeman, you know gaza
well.
You've been there.
I've been there as well.
But tell us a little, I know
you are in Beirut right now,
when you see these live
pictures coming in of this
massive Israeli air strike
assault on northern gaza right
now, what do you think?
>> Well, what I'm thinking is
from looking at the pictures,
Nick is in sderot, which
overlooks a fairly open area
that goes to the edge of the
populated parts of northern
gaza.
That seems to be where much of
this fire, the flares, are
being focused.
Obviously they are trying to
make sure that those areas are
clear.
But after those areas, you
start getting into the very
crowded urban parts of the gaza
strip.
The suburbs of gaza city.
That's WHE there is going to
be a real danger of high
civilian casualties.
Nick was quoting the Israeli
authorities, talking about
precision strikes, precise
information.
But what we know is that
oftentimes, it's not as precise
as it could be or should be.
And already, what we've seen is
the death toll in gaza well
over 9000 at this point.
So, as they move forward into
this populated area, the death
toll is likely to soar.
Not just that, what we've seen
is in the days since the ground
incursion began on Friday, is
that hamas is using maximum
advantage its knowledge of the
terrain.
It's tunnels that it has been
built, and booby traps, and
whatnot.
And therefore, this is going to
be a very bloody fight all
around.
For civilians, for the Israeli
military, for hamas and this is
probably going to be a very
long and difficult battle.
Street by street, house by
house, perhaps even room by
room.
But clearly, just looking at
these pictures, they are laying
down smoke, flares, there's
incoming --
looks like artillery.
I'm just looking at the
pictures now.
Artillery, rockets, and
obviously there are ground
troops in there as well.
Certainly, in all of my time of
watching Israeli military
action going into gaza, this
looks like the most intense
I've ever seen, wolf.
>> Yeah, you're making a very
important point, this is a very
in tense air assault on
northern gaza right now not far
away from sderot, Israel, where
nic Robertson is just north of
Israel right now.
You see these rockets coming in,
pounding and pouncing when
Israel has undertaken a massive
air assault like this it sets
the stage for a ground invasion,
that is about to come in, I
suspect that's what's going to
happen in this part of gaza as
well as Israeli ground to rips,
tax, artillery will move in
after this area is pounded with
these heavy airstrikes that are
ongoing right now.
We are showing our viewers live
pictures of what's going on in
gaza.
[Sound of artillery]
It is really, really intense.
Let's go back to Nick
Robertson.
You are therein sderot, nic,
you have a much better sense of
what's going on.
You say you've not seen
anything along these lines.
Here comes some more rockets
into gaza from, presumably,
Israeli planes flying overhead.
Go ahead and give us your sense
of the enormity of this
development right now.
>> Wolf, I'm standing right
next to our camera man, John --
who is filming this.
We have a high vantage point
overlooking gaza.
It looks to us as if this is on
the northern edge, towards gaza
city.
As Ben said, there is open
ground from the border fence
that you saw, or you're about
to see.
I'm seeing it in realtime.
There's a delay.
A big flash coming out from the
epicenter of that smoke.
This is the biggest, most
sustained use of flares.
It appears, smoke as well on
the ground.
We have seen, in recent days,
at the beginning of the
incursion, how the idf used
heavy smoke to blanket the
area.
This is a military tactic so
that they can move in unseen.
We are seeing it again now.
We are seeing big flashes at
the southern end of that smoke.
And what the idf is describing,
this evening, is a very new
situation for them.
A much stronger situation for
them.
Whereby they say they have
encircled entirely gaza city.
If they have encircled gaza
city, as they say, potentially
cut the north off, the north of
gaza strip off from the south
of gaza strip.
Potentially, meaning the
Israelis now are blocking any
hamas in the north of the gaza
strip from escaping to the
south.
You are now watching a battle,
in some, ways one of the team
here was just talking about it.
In some ways, it is sort of
medieval in that it is
surrounding a city.
You are seeing the smoke, and
the flares, and the flash is
all coming from an area that is
now constrained and contained
within idf forces.
As Ben was saying, the civilian
casualties on the ground,
people have been told to get
out of the way, they don't know
how to get out of the way.
They are stuck in their houses,
they are stuck in their homes.
They are getting caught up and
killed, in high numbers.
During this operation.
But what we are witnessing now,
our efforts by the idf to
mitigate against casualties for
their own forces.
Because they are operating in
hamas territory.
Territory that the hamas troops,
hamas fighters, have been able
to potentially lay booby traps,
have been able to set areas
where they want to draw the
Israeli troops into, so that
they can use these armored
piercing rocket propelled
grenades that they've been
using.
Effectively, against Israeli
armored tanks, and armored
fighting vehicles.
So, this is --
this battle, really, that we
are seeing now, kicked off 20
minutes ago now.
20, 25 minutes ago.
And it is intense in this area
around gaza city.
You continue to see the rockets
come in from above, the flashes
at the southern end of the
city.
Underneath this, we don't know
how many idf forces are
actually on the ground.
The boom that you are hearing,
that's artillery going off
behind me as well.
It's probably what is causing
the flashes that you may be
seeing on the left of your
picture.
I saw another flash, there at
the northern end of gaza strip,
just now, that looks like
something coming up out of
gaza.
A rocket that didn't go far,
perhaps it fell short.
But anything that comes up from
the ground is most likely, from
a center, that's mostly fired
up by hamas or another group
inside of gaza.
Anything that is coming out of
the sky like this, rocket right